black holes are the largest collections
of pure violent energy in the universe
if you come too close they'll devalue
and add your energy to their collection
and so the energy is lost to us forever
or is it it turns out there's a universe
cheat code a way of powering
civilizations until the very death of
everything or of constructing the
largest bomb in the universe but how
didn't we learn that all energy is
trapped forever in black holes even
light this is true everything you think
you know about the wettest thing in the
universe is about to get weirder for one
simple reason
black holes are spinning why black
hole's spin
when ready ready massive stars die their
cores collapse under their own gravity
into black holes this means something
very big becomes very very tiny like the
tiniest anything can be in this universe
but stars are rotating and a fundamental
property of our universe is that things
that are spinning don't want to stop
spinning we call this angular momentum
and this angular momentum can't go away
a big thing that spins and becomes
smaller spins faster so as the core of a
star collapses its momentum makes it
spin faster and faster and faster until
it collapses into a black hole and the
black hole keeps on spinning in
conceivably fast some of them spend
millions of times a second Y spinning
black holes are special just like non
spinning black holes spinning black
holes have an event horizon and a
singularity at their core where all of
their mass is concentrated the
singularity is usually described as a
single infinitely small point with no
surface area but points can't rotate so
a rotating singularity can't be a point
instead it's a regularity a regularity
is a ring with a thickness of zero and
no surface spinning extremely fast
containing all the mass of the black
hole the black hole is spinning so fast
that it morphs space and time itself it
literally dragged space with it such as
its power this creates a new and super
weird region of space-time the ergo
sphere which envelops for black hole if
space and time are completely broken
inside the event horizon then they're
only half broken inside the ergosphere
inside the ergosphere nothing makes
sense it's possible to enter it and then
leave it again but it's probably not a
great experience
you can imagine it like this falling
into a static black hole is like sliding
down a hole
being inside the ergosphere of a
spinning black hole is like spiraling
down a deadly drain the black hole
transfers its own kinetic energy in the
form of rotation to everything that
enters the ergosphere the regularity
makes you dance whether you want to or
not
you need to move faster than the speed
of light just to standstill here which
is it possible but here's our cheat code
we can steal this energy and there's a
lot of energy to steal how to steal
energy from a monster tape the
supermassive black hole at the center of
the Milky Way we could steal as much
energy from it as every single star in
the Milky Way emits in a billion years
combined the easiest way to steal this
energy is oddly enough to drop something
into the black hole we've seen that the
regularity forces energy on us when we
enter the ergosphere
which is a lot like being in a whirlpool
with space-time rushing around and
around if you're clever you can use the
water to your advantage and swim faster
than before
in practice this means sending a rocket
into the other sphere and making a trade
with the black hole we give it some mass
energy and it gives us some of its
rotational energy but it's not a fair
trade we get the better deal normally if
you fire a rocket you exchange chemical
energy for kinetic energy this is like
pushing yourself forward in a swimming
pool but if you fire a rocket inside the
ergosphere it's like pushing yourself
forward in a wave form the rotational
energy of the waves gives you a much
stronger boost than you could get just
by pushing yourself the boost from the
rotation of the back hole is so big that
you leave the ergosphere with much more
energy than you entered it the black
hole gives a tiny amount of its
rotational energy to you and slows down
a little obviously this requires a lot
of food fortunately black holes aren't
picky eaters an advanced future
civilization would probably harvest
asteroids to drop them into the black
hole when they needed an energy boost
but there's an even better way to get
energy from a black hole and oddly
enough it builds the biggest bomb any
living thing could ever hope to build
the black hole bomb we only need two
things to build a black hole bomb afar
spinning black hole and a big mirror the
mirror has to completely envelop the
black hole which is similar to a Dyson
Sphere a mega structure that harvests
the energy of an entire star although
our mirror would be easier to build
mirrors are simpler and black holes are
much much more compact than stars
if we made the merit 10 centimeters
thick the mettle of a big asteroid would
probably be enough material for a black
hole with the mass of our Sun once our
mirror is in place we only need to open
a window and shoot electromagnetic waves
of the black hole you can imagine what
happens next by imagining tossing a ball
at a wall and it's coming back faster
than a bullet the waves hit the black
hole at light speed a small proportion
of the waves falls past the event
horizon to disappear forever
but a much larger amount sloshes through
the ergosphere
where the black hole forces some of its
rotational energy on them and amplifies
them they now begin superradiant
scattering which our fancy science words
meaning bouncing around between mirror
and black hole and getting stronger
every time they go around they are
getting exponentially stronger by
opening some windows in the mirror we
can extract the energy from the waves as
fast as they grow which we could use in
theory to create what would be for all
practical purposes an endless source of
energy for trillions of years or we
could blow it up if the waves are not
released they will continue to get
stronger and stronger and take more and
more energy from the black hole until
the mirror shatters a supermassive black
hole would release as much energy as a
supernova making the bomb the largest
explosion any living being could ever
create the last home in a dying universe
the beauty of the black hole bomb the
Penrose process and the super radiant
scattering is that they are not science
fiction in the far far future this might
be the only way to survive in our dying
universe after all the red dwarfs have
cooled down
and all the white dwarfs transformed
into black dwarfs the universe will turn
dark forever rotating black holes might
be the only sources of energy in the
entire universe that life could harvest
if so the last living being in existence
might one day end its life around a
black hole which is equally chilling and
uplifting it turns out that even without
any light there are places we can go
black holes are as interesting as they
are mysterious but there's actually a
surprising amount we do know using mass
we can calculate things and come up with
theories about how we die if we fall
into them if you're the sort of person
who gets excited about maths and
calculating these things for yourself
our friends at brilliance have put
together a fantastic black hole quiz to
help you get your head around them
brilliant is a problem-solving website
that teaches you to think like a
scientist by guiding you through the
problems they take concepts like these
break them up into bite-sized pieces
present clear thinking in each part and
then built back up to an interesting
conclusion if you visit brilliant org
slash nutshell or click the link in the
description you can sign up for free and
learn all kinds of cool stuff and as a
bonus for cuts cos art viewers the first
688 people will also get 20% off their
annual membership if you want to truly
learn about black holes and support cuts
cos x this is one of the best ways to
do it
[Music]